---
layout: post
title: Week 1
---


## Open Source

When I hear the term "open source," I immediately think of software that is accessible to all, free to use, with code that you can read and change yourself. Because my interaction with open source software has primarily been on the user end, the community is much of an afterthought, though I'm excited for that to change and properly immerse myself with the seemingly open, communicative group of people surrounding the software. 

I'm fond of open source softwares primarily because of its commitment to accessibility of information and tools. Not only from the benefit of the users, but contributors gain from it, too, by having opportunities to gradually build their coding, social, and project management skills through the course of a project. There is no limitations set by corporate goals, no blocking of information because the software is owned by a commercial entity. In an age where accessibility of information (especially by online means) is seen as a human right, this type of work is crucial.

But there are limitations. Poorly managed communities, and the often lack of funding for projects and commission to contributors can be an issue for members of a society where money must be earned to survive. This can be fixed when private funding is given to public projects, but that leaves the opportunity for investors to influence the project, potentially cutting aspects of it's "open" nature. Thus, when neither private funding is given or commission provided, the "accessibility" of open source projects is then only feasibly open to those with the time or money to dedicate the effort to contribute. Initiatives to truly make open source softwares and their protects "open" to all are thus needed.

Regardless, I registered for a class on open source software because I believe in its general message, and because I see the beneficial contributions open source software have make to technology in general. I'm excited to grow multiple different coding skills by participating in various projects, and to find proper "tech communities" through them. I hope to help projects that promote positive goals and help humanitarian issues, thus using my tech knowledge for social gain rather than just my own personal benefit. 

## Projects 

The open source projects I often use are below:

* [DuckDuckGo](https://duckduckgo.com/): a private search engine that doesn't retain any information from your searches or browsing history. With constant news about Facebook and Google's retention, manipulation, and selling of user's information, this is a crucial tool for me. Beyond that, it has great features similar to those of Google's, and functions exceptionally well.

* [Nmap](https://nmap.org/): working in network security, I use multiple networking tools that are free and open source. Nmap can run port scans, OS detectors, and more on single machines or networks, which is a great tool to either check your own device's current settings or check a network you're security. Hilariously enough, it's also been used in several movies as a "[hacker screen](https://nmap.org/movies/)".

* [Franz](https://github.com/meetfranz/franz): Franz is a messenger aggregator of sorts. It creates a single window on your desktop within which you can connect the multiple types of online messengers you use (FB messenger, Telegram, Twitter DMs, Slack, etc) to avoid having multiple windows or tabs open. It doesn't retain information from your messages, just solely acts as a container for all of the windows. It's been extremely useful to have on my desktop, and keeps up to date with changes from the different messaging sites, so it runs quite well.

* [BASH](https://www.gnu.org/gnu/gnu.html): who doesn't use bash?


