---
layout: post

title: Team Project Progress and Take on Wikipedia, 3/31
---

### Team Project Progress
This week, my team and I made a final decision on what open source project we plan on doing our team project on. We were originally going to do it on a Wikimedia project, either Commons or Kiwix, but found the community to be exceptionally crowded, which would make it harder for us to be able to spend a more-than-short time on a feature or issue resolution.

Instead, we'll be doing our project on [Beagle](https://github.com/yampelo/beagle/), a young project intended for network security. It takes log files (from programs like Windows Event Viewer, Procmon, Sysmon, etc) and transforms them into graphs displaying connections between OS processes, files, IPs, and similar nodes. Our team discussed looking into this project to find a new feature to add or more functionality to develop for it (rather than just trying to solve an issue), since it's a promising project but isn't yet applicable to as many tools as security analysts would find useful. Through this research we all learned more about installing Docker, a container for running different software images (since this is what Beagle best runs through).

Next week we intend to find a specific problem to solve for the project, and make sure we all are comfortable using the software and navigating the files.

### Take on Wikipedia

In my perspective, Wikipedia seems to be mostly contributed to by people who are passionate about the topic they contribute to. I've often seen the same user accounts contribute to pages I frequent on Wiktionary (the Wikimedia project that works as a omnilingual dictionary), and the discussions for pages I become interested in always have passionate and extremely knowledgable discussions. It doesn't seem to have as much of a minor threshhold of tech experience as code-based open source projects do, which makes it more available for the less-technical (but still knowledgable) users to access. However, with this passionate userbase can come people with explicit biases towards the information they're supposed to be sharing. This also seems to be a recurring issue. 

I could see myself becoming a regular contributor to a few types of Wikipedia pages, especially ones on modern language or musicians. For instance, the articles I plan to contribute to for this class will probably relate to adding more information to smaller musicians' pages, since they often have less content, despite there being more information available about them.

Watching the Jimmy Wales TED talk, I was pleased to see his emphasis on global access, and the availability of information in other languages. I'd be curious now, with English having become the unofficial "language of the Internet" over the past few years, if the statistics of only one third of Wikipedia users going on the English pages still holds true, or if people use them more often despite having different native languages (also because as time has gone on, it seems that even more pages have been added in English especially). The issue with users frequently trying to edit pages with biases (though the Bush-Kerry example is dated) seems to still be an issue. His statement of the "problem being between not between the right and the left, but between the thoughtful and the jerks" still rings true, though political volitility online is seemingly much more prevalent now. I appreciated his distinction between "truth" and having a neutral portrayal of an incident, and the recognition that truth is different for people with differing perspectives. I hope this mentality continues as the Internet grows even larger and online wikis become even more common. 
